Story Recapped here. Today, I'm going to explain
a supernatural horror film called "It Follows."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
In a peaceful neighbourhood, Annie storms
out of her home as if running for her life.
The sound of the door opening causes her to stop
in the middle of the road. She slowly backs away
while her eyes trail at something. Her father
comes out of the house and calls out to her. Annie
lies to her neighbour and her
father, saying that she's okay.
Finally, she circles back to her home
with her father following inside.
But she frantically exits again, now with
her car keys in hand, and drives away.
Even as she's driving, she keeps
looking over her shoulder—panic
in her eyes and ignoring her ringing phone.
That evening, Annie parks her car by the beach.
Shaken and crying, she finally answers her phone.
With her eyes focused on the space around
her car, she apologizes to her father and
tells him that she loves him. Annie is tired
of running and waits for what lies ahead.
Annie is found at the beach in the morning,
dead with her leg morbidly bent and broken.
In another part of the suburbs, Jay
relaxes in the pool. Her sister, Kelly,
invites her to watch a movie with her friends,
but Jay refuses. She has a date later that day.
After Kelly leaves, Jay smiles and calls out
the boys next door who are watching her swim.
Inside their home, Kelly is watching a
movie with her friends, Paul and Yara,
while their mom is at the dining table. Jay heads
up to her room, quietly preparing for her date.
At the movie theatre, Jay teaches Hugh, her
date, a game that she and her sister play.
Hugh chooses a person in the theatre he
wants to trade places with, and Jay has
to guess who he chose. When it's Hugh's turn to
guess, he points to a girl in a yellow dress.
But Jay doesn't see her. Dread fills Hugh. He
immediately urges Jay to leave the theatre with
him. He claims that he didn't feel comfortable
being there. They continue the date with dinner,
and everything seemed to be going well
despite what happened in the theatre.
The next day, Jay walks with her
sister. They talk about Hugh.
Jay is giddy about him but is still
concerned about his behaviour in the theatre.
Even though she accepted his story that he wasn't
feeling well, Jay is still suspicious that he
was hiding something. Before reaching their
house, Kelly waves to their neighbour, Greg.
During their next date, Hugh takes Jay out to a
secluded area. The two spend a passionate night
in his car for the first time. Afterwards, Jay
reminisces about her views on love until Hugh
chloroforms her. Jay tries to fight him back,
but Hugh overpowers her, and she passes out.
Jay wakes up tied to a wheelchair
in an abandoned building.
Hugh apologizes and assures her that he won't
hurt her--that he only needed time to explain
things to her. An entity will start to follow
her, and it will kill her if it catches her.
It used to follow him, and now he passed it on
to her. It can look like anyone, even someone
that she knows. The dazed Jay starts screaming
for help, still in disbelief of what he said,
until Hugh reels her to the edge of the
building to show that it was coming.
Jay sees a strange woman slowly walking towards
the building. Hugh instructs her that she has to
sleep with someone else to pass it along and
that if it kills her, it will come after him
next. Confused and afraid, Jay cries as Hugh
takes her back in his car and drives away.
Kelly and her friends play cards back
at their house when they witness Hugh
dropping off Jay in the middle of the
road. The three rush to her aid and
calls the cops, who interrogate the
distraught Jay about what happened.
The police try to track down Hugh, but they
couldn't find him since he had used a fake name.
Days later, Jay is still struggling
to make sense of what happened.
While in the bathroom, a ball bounces off the
window, startling her. She looks out the window,
not seeing the boy from next door
peeking at her from the window.
At school, Jay attends a class. She
sees an old woman outside the window,
seemingly heading towards her.
The old woman looks out of place,
but no one else seemed to mind her. Hugh's
warnings about the entity come back to her,
and she hurriedly leaves the class.
The entity gets close to her,
and she confirms that the students around don't
see it. Scared, she gets into her car and leaves.
Jay heads to the ice cream shop where Kelly
and Paul work. She tells them the story Hugh
told her. None of them could believe it, not
even Jay. But Paul offers to stay at their
house for the night nonetheless to watch over
them. Yara joins them to sleepover as well.
That evening, Jay couldn't sleep and joins
Paul in the living room to watch a movie.
Paul sees Jay's unease and tries to comfort her.
While reminiscing about their childhood, they
hear the kitchen window breaking. Paul goes to
investigate but claims that no one was there.
He heads upstairs to wake up Kelly, leaving Jay
alone. She walks into the kitchen nervously
and sees a woman there, limping towards her.
Jay screams and rushes upstairs to her
room. Kelly and Paul beg her to let them in,
still convinced that there's
no one else in the house. Jay,
who's starting to believe Hugh's story about
the creature, collapses in fear and panic with
Kelly comforting her. A still sleepy Yara
knocks on the door, and Kelly opens it,
despite Jay's warnings. Jay is relieved that
Yara is alone, standing at the doorway. But a
tall man appears behind Yara. Jay screams
and climbs out of the balcony to escape.
Outside, Greg spots Jay riding away on a bicycle,
with her friends and sister yelling for her. Jay
stops at a nearby playground and sits on a swing
set. She looks around, wary of every sound,
thinking that the entity will catch up to her.
When she sees movement in the distance,
she freezes until Paul calls her.
The others try to calm her down. Greg catches up
to them, curious about what happened. Jay decides
that she needs to find Hugh to figure out what
was really happening. Greg offers to help them.
They visit the address Hugh gave Jay when
they were dating and sees that it's an
abandoned-looking house. They investigate the
items littered in the place, hoping to find clues
that Hugh might have left behind. Paul finds a
high school photo of Hugh with a girl. Recognizing
the school's logo, they track him down and
discover that his real name is Jeff Redmond. Kelly
suggests telling the police, but Jay decides not
to. She wants to get answers from him directly.
They visit Jeff's real address, where Jay meets
his mother. She recognizes her face, realizing
that the entity had taken Jeff's mother's form
during the first night she saw it. Jeff apologizes
to Jay and tells her more about his story. He
says that the curse was passed down to him after
having a one-night stand with a girl from a bar.
Jeff insists that it's real and Jay should pass
it to someone else, but her friends are still
sceptical about it, thinking it's just a trick.
Greg invites them to his family's
lakehouse to get away. While Jay sleeps,
Paul watches over her, considering Jeff's
suggestion of Jay passing the curse.
The following day, Greg teaches Jay how
to use a revolver to protect herself.
While hanging out by the shore with Paul, Kelly,
and Yara, the entity takes in Yara's form and
attacks Jay. Paul grabs a lounge chair and hits
it despite not being able to see the entity.
It releases Jay but shoves Paul back. They run
into the shed, where Jay grabs the revolver and
starts shooting the entity. It collapses but
gets back up immediately, seemingly unharmed.
Jay shuts the door, realizing that she
can't harm it with a gun, and recoils back.
The entity bangs on the door until it creates
a hole. Jay stares at the spot, expecting the
entity to crawl inside. But instead of it, Greg
looks inside, asking what's going on. He still
refuses to believe the entity is real, having not
witnessed Jay getting attacked. When he leaves,
Jay crawls slowly towards the door, wondering if
it was safe. But the entity looks into the hole,
now looking like the boy who lives next door to
their house. It screeches as it goes inside the
shed. Jay rushes to open another exit and takes
Greg's car, the entity still following behind.
Panicked and distressed, Jay crashes
the vehicle into a cornfield.
She wakes up in the hospital with a broken
arm and her friends asleep at her side.
Jay looks out to the open door, listening to
the sound of footsteps with a shaky breath.
She waits for the entity to walk in, but
instead, a doctor walks past her room. Relieved,
she turns to Greg. Tired of her situation,
Jay finally decides to do as Jeff suggested,
passing down the curse to someone. Greg and Jay
have intercourse that evening in the hospital.
Days later, Greg goes about his life normally
without seeing the entity. Despite this, Jay still
confines herself in her room, scared. She watches
Greg's house one night from her window vigilantly,
in case it comes back. She spots a person
walking to Greg's house. It breaks the window
as Jay starts calling Greg. He doesn't answer
the phone, and the entity has entered the house.
Jay runs to Greg's house to warn him, but the
creature is already in his bedroom, banging
on his door while looking like his mother. Jay
watches the entity attack Greg. She's too late.
Knowing that she's next, she drives away in
grief and fear of what she just witnessed.
She stops near the beach and falls asleep.
In the morning, she spots three men on a boat. She
begins to undress and swims into
the water to meet with the men.
Back in her home, Paul visits Jay and
offers to let her pass the curse to him,
but she refuses. Paul confesses
that he likes her and questions why
she chose to pass it on to Greg. Jay thought
he'd be okay because he wasn't scared.
She regrets having done so. Looking around her
room, Paul gets an idea on how to stop the entity.
As they drive away from her house, Jay spots
the entity, looking like her grandfather,
on the roof. The entity has killed the men she was
with at the boat and is now back to hunting her.
Jay, Paul, Kelly and Yara go to a closed
pool to prepare to face the entity.
They set up electrical items around the pool while
Jay goes in the water, waiting for it to arrive.
A thunderstorm rages outside while they wait.
Jay finally spots the entity entering.
Hearing the fear in her voice,
Kelly asks her what it looked like, but Jay
refuses to tell her. Jay freaks out, wanting
to get out of the pool. But Paul encourages her
to stay until the entity goes in the water with
her. But instead of going in the water, the entity
starts throwing the electrical items at her.
Jay points at the entity to help her friends
attack it as it continues to hurl items at her,
causing her to sink in the water. She
resurfaces and looks at the entity,
who now wears the face of her deceased father.
This is why she didn't want to tell her sister.
Paul grabs a gun, relying on Jay's directions to
shoot at it. With the entity invisible to him,
he gets too close, nearly getting caught by it. He
takes a shot, seeing the floating hairdryer in
front of him, but accidentally hits Yara's leg.
It continues throwing things at Jay, hitting
her on the arm. Kelly grabs a blanket and
throws it over the entity to help Paul. When
she finally cloaks the entity, Paul shoots the
entity on the head before it collapses into the
water. Jay hurriedly swims to the side, but the
entity grabs her by the leg, pulling her down.
Paul continues to fire the gun into the water,
estimating its position. He finally shoots
it on the head again, and Jay is free.
Kelly helps Jay get out of the pool.
Paul asks her if the entity was still alive.
Jay carefully takes a peek at the pool to see.
When she looks into the water, blood is
spreading, turning the pool completely red.
After the event, Paul and Jay
spend an intimate night together.
When Jay is asleep, Paul drives around
and spots a couple of prostitutes.
An idea forms in his head: a way to
divert the entity if it was still alive.
Jay and Paul walk together, hand-in-hand.
They enjoy the little peace that they have,
not noticing the figure walking
behind them in the distance.